# SwEnt M1 Team Grading Report

This first milestone M1 serves as a checkpoint at which we provide you with formal feedback on how you are coming together as a team, organizing yourselves, adopting good software engineering practices, and making progress toward delivering incremental value to your users. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The goal of our evaluation is not to assess whether you are top-tier Android developers or software testers, this will be assessed in earnest in subsequent milestones, once you've had the opportunity to gain experience and acquire the relevant skills. You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M1 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M1.md) document.


## Blue Belt

You qualified for a Blue Belt 🥋🔵 and got a final grade of 5.03/6 for M1. Excellent work! You're demonstrating advanced skills. 

We looked at several aspects, grouped into five categories. Here is the breakdown of the points you earned:

| Metric                          | **Points Earned**              | **Weight** | **Feedback**                              |
|---------------------------------|--------------------------------|------------|-------------------------------------------|
| **Implementation (APK, CI, tests)** | 5.5 out of 6 | 40%        | [See Details](#implementation-apk-ci-tests) |
| **Sprint Backlog & Product Backlog** | 3.25 out of 6      | 20%        | [See Details](#sprint-backlog--product-backlog) |
| **Figma**                       | 6 out of 6       | 15%        | [See Details](#figma)                     |
| **Architecture**                | 4.5 out of 6 | 15%       | [See Details](#architecture)               |
| **Scrum process documents**     | 6 out of 6       | 10%        | [See Details](#scrum-process-documents)    |
| **Final Grade**                 | **5.03 out of 6**    |            |                                           |


In addition to the feedback you received from the coaches during the Sprints, you will find some extra feedback below.

## Implementation (APK, CI, tests)

We looked at whether your APK is functional and reliable. We also assessed your repo setup, whether it is clearly organized and if there is a CI running Sonar Cloud and running tests including at least one meaningful end-to-end test.

There were some minor issues that could be solved to improve the user experience:
- From the HomeScreen, likes are very slow to be saved and to appear as liked.
- The comments section is very small and so it is not easy to scroll between comments, maybe you could try to do the all screen scrollable to have a better user experience.
- In the Home Screen, depending on the size of you phone, words maybe be cut which lead to having "1 comments" written as "1 // commen // ts" (where // are line breaks).
- In landscape mode, the comments are not visible from the Animal Detail screen.
- In landscape mode, the Profile screen only appear in half of the screen.
- There is no meaningful end-to-end test

For this part, you received 5.5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Sprint Backlog & Product Backlog

We assessed the structure and clarity of your Sprint and Product Backlogs and how you used them.
We looked at whether your tasks are well defined, appropriately sized, and aligned with user stories; whether the Product Backlog is well organized and value-driven; and whether the Sprint Backlog is continuously updated and demonstrates good planning and prioritization.

Most of the tasks for sprint 3 are not assigned to each member, and the estimated time is not filled in. Moreover there are a lot more tasks assigned for sprint 3 than what seems doable in one sprint.

All the users stories are in the product backlog but they are not moved to the sprint backlog when they are in developpement, nor removed from the product backlog when they are fully implemented (like the HomeScreen user story for exemple).

For this part, you received 3.25 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Figma

We evaluated your Figma, whether it is up-to-date with the app and how it is used as a communication, planning and design tool to accelerate the implementation of good UI.



For this part, you received 6 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Architecture

We reviewed your project’s architecture diagram, whether it is up-to-date with the app and if it follows clean design principles. We also looked at how it is used to discuss and document the architecture of the app as the app evolves.

The architecture diagram is complete and consistent with your application, but it is not easily readable. There are a lot of arrows and it is a bit confusing and not easy to see links between the UI and the data layer.

For this part, you received 4.5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Scrum Process Documents

We reviewed your Scrum process documentation, including Sprint Retrospectives and Team Standup. We assessed whether they documented the process in detail, and how they were used to prepare the meetings. We also looked at your ability to lead structured and effective meetings, with everyone's participation.



For this part, you received 6 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Summary

Your team grade for milestone M1 is 5.03. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Good luck for the next Sprints!




