# SwEnt M2 Team Grading Report

The M2 feedback provides an opportunity to give you, as a team, formal feedback on how you are performing in the project. By now, you should be building upon the foundations set in M1, achieving greater autonomy and collaboration within the team. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The feedback focuses on how well your team has applied good software engineering practices, delivered user value, and collaborated effectively. We assessed the quality and maintainability of your implementation, the clarity of your design, and the consistency of your delivery and teamwork across Sprints. An important component is how much you have progressed since the previous milestone. You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M2 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M2.md) document. As mentioned in the past, the standards for M2 are elevated relative to M1, and this progression will continue into M3.

## Blue Belt

You qualified for a Blue Belt 🥋🔵 and got a final grade of 5.42/6 for M2. Excellent work! You're demonstrating advanced skills. 

We looked at several aspects, grouped into six categories. Here is the breakdown of the points you earned:

| Metric                                   | **Points Earned**              | **Weight** | **Feedback**                              |
|------------------------------------------|--------------------------------|------------|-------------------------------------------|
| **Implementation (APK, code quality)**   | 4.61 out of 6 | 40%        | [See Details](#implementation-apk-code-quality) |
| **Features**                             | 6 out of 6   | 20%        | [See Details](#features)                  |
| **Figma and Architecture Diagram**       | 6 out of 6 | 10%     | [See Details](#figma-and-architecture-diagram) |
| **Sprint Backlog & Product Backlog**     | 5.75 out of 6    | 10%        | [See Details](#sprint-backlog--product-backlog) |
| **Scrum Process (documents, autonomy)**  | 6 out of 6 | 10%       | [See Details](#scrum-process-documents-autonomy) |
| **Consistent Delivery of Value**         | 6 out of 6 | 10%      | [See Details](#consistent-delivery-of-value) |
| **Final Grade**                          | **5.42 out of 6**   |            |                                           |

In addition to the feedback you received from the coaches during the Sprints, you will find some extra feedback below.

---

## Implementation (APK, code quality)

We evaluated your APK’s functionality, stability, and user experience, along with the quality and consistency of your code. We also reviewed your CI setup, Sonar integration, and tests, including the presence of at least two meaningful end-to-end tests and the line coverage achieved.

You application is really great, with a good user experience. Here are some issues we found while testing it: 
- When click on heart on the image in home screen, the like is not reflected in the counter.
- The pin on map icons are centered on the icon and not on the tip of pin.
- When entering the settings, it does not recognize my user id, and failed. This is probably due to the fact that the user database was not refreshed when the page to create a complete account was implemented. 
- On the map, when we click to see the animal post, it fails with an error.
- Deleting an account does not work.
- When creating an account, you should limit the input field size to avoid really big names
- The loading to create a post and to get the home screen is slow.

There are way too many sonarcloud issues in the codebase and they aren't only basic code smells, but also code complexity. This have slipped by way too often in big code PRs.

There is also no end-to-end tests, please have at least 3 for M3.

For this part, you received 4.61 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Features

We evaluated the features implemented in this milestone. We looked for the completion of at least one epic, as well as the use of at least one public cloud service, one phone sensor, and a concept of authentication.
We assessed how well the implemented features align with the app’s objectives, integrate with existing functionality, and contribute to delivering clear user value.

The app is doing exceptionaly well! I could almost say you have multiple epics done. Congrats!

For this part, you received 6 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Figma and Architecture Diagram

We evaluated whether your Figma and architecture diagram accurately reflect the current implementation of the app and how well they align with the app's functionality and structure. 

Your figma stays consistent with your current design and stays ahead with designs for future screens and features. The same goes for the architecture diagram.

For this part, you received 6 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Sprint Backlog & Product Backlog

We assessed the structure and clarity of your Sprint and Product Backlogs and how you used them. We looked at whether your tasks are well defined, appropriately sized, and aligned with user stories; whether the Product Backlog is well organized and value-driven; and whether the Sprint Backlog is continuously updated and demonstrates good planning and prioritization.

Doing separate PR for the skeleton and the implementation is great to avoid conflicts, but it is better to avoid dupplicating the issues, it makes the scrum board unclear. Use only one issue and link the two PRs to the same issue.

For this part, you received 5.75 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Scrum Process (documents, autonomy)

We evaluated your ability to autonomously run and document the Scrum process. We looked at how well you documented your team Stand-Ups and Retrospectives for each Sprint. We also assessed your level of autonomy in organizing and conducting these ceremonies, defining and prioritizing user stories in your Product Backlog, and planning well-scoped Sprint tasks that lead to concrete, valuable increments.

All the scrum documents are correctly filled out with blockers and solutions. The meetings go well, no need for coaches to intervene.

For this part, you received 6 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Consistent Delivery of Value

We reviewed your team’s ability to deliver meaningful increments of value at the end of each Sprint.  
We assessed whether your progress was steady, visible, and tied to concrete user value and app functionality, in line with your Product Backlog objectives.

Every sprint you add quite a few features all while keep the codebase clean. The app has greatly grown since M1 and we can see your hardwork through testing the apk.

For this part, you received 6 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Summary

Your team grade for milestone M2 is 5.42/6. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Keep up the good work and good luck for the next milestone!